3.6b

Docker is a container platform which can aid in development and deployment of applications. Docker containers are isolated environments in which applications are run. Docker containers are instances of docker images that contain the application files and its dependencies. Docker images are built based on a dockerfile which is a lightweight document of the docker image dependencies and build commands.

All of these layers make defining, creating, sharing, deploying and tweaking easy. The docker containers are isolated thus making sure you have the defined dependency versions, ports and other application requirements set correctly without interference from other applications. The images work as a base for all the containers and save you the trouble of reinstalling and uninstalling applications and deleting files when you want to reset back to the original state after messing around inside the container and possibly breaking something. They also allow you to version the whole environments of the application. The dockerfile allows easy sharing and an easy way of defining the application dependencies and environment. With a single command the dockerfile can be used to create an image and with a single command a container that runs the application can be made from the image.

Without docker there are multiple problems you can run into. Sharing your development environment may not be easy and often requires others to run multiple commands to set up the dependencies of the applications. You would possibly run into problems if different services of the application require installing different versions of dependencies as that can sometimes be impossible. The documents describing the required dependencies and versions may not contain same versions as the ones used in production as nothing enforces documentation and actual installed software to have the same version. Running multiple services in a single machine can be difficult and you can sometimes require a network of computers to emulate the real-world usage of the applications. After breaking something in the development or production environment it can be difficult to go back to a previous state.

Docker can solve all of the listed issues. And while docker may not be the most performant option when running software it can still aid in development of the software. In many cases the overhead of docker may be acceptable in which case you can use docker in development and production making finding issues occurring in production easier to reproduce in development as the environments will be identical.

